(CITIZEN D tch!)
[CITIZEN E] Can you believe he
showed his face here?
[CITIZEN F] Can you
believe this guy?
[CITIZEN G] I can't believe
this is happening.
(IKELOS sigh)
[HERMES] The chaos and confusion
seems to be quieting down now
that Ikelos has been
exiled from Orario.
[HERMES] They've pinned it on
the Ikelos Familia and their
smuggling ring...
including the appearances of
monsters on the surface.
I'd say that he played his
role as a scapegoat rather
successfully.
[URANUS] However... There's yet
to be any sort of conclusion.
[URANUS] The Xenos are unable to
return to the Dungeon. They're
concealing themselves within the
city as we speak.
[URANUS] Swarms of adventurers
are scouring every back-street
and alleyway of Daedalus Street.
Not least among them
is the Loki Familia.
[URANUS] It is merely a matter
of time before they are all
discovered.
Furthermore... with Ikelos
now out of the picture...
The whole city's taking out
their frustrations on Bell.
The tide has shifted
against him.
[HERMES] Indeed... Even
kind-hearted children...
can become quite cruel when
faced with adversity.
[MORD] And just who does
he think he is?! Screw
you, Little Rookie!
[MORD] That stupid rabbit made a
fool outta himself all for the
sake of bragging rights...!
(ADVENTURER A chuckling)
Oh, how the mighty record
holder has fallen!
It's gotta be the fame.
It serves him right!
People used to bend over
backwards for him.
Those days are long gone.
(ADVENTURER A laughing)
(BOTH PAIN)
What the hell, Mord?!
(ADVENTURER B grunting)
[MORD] Quit yer yappin'! Just
drink!
(MORD drinking)
(sigh) (growling)
(Opening Song, "over and over")
[HESTIA] Mikoto, Haruhime.
Welcome home.
[HESTIA] How was
your trip into town?
[HARUHIME] Fairly uneventful...
However...
[HARUHIME] The way that
everybody looked at us
was um... unpleasant.
[MIKOTO] As we feared...
Master Bell's actions have had
an impact.
And of course public
opinion is growing more
and more hostile.
[MIKOTO] The tension
was palpable.
[HESTIA] Ooh...
[HESTIA] Figures...
(MIKOTO notice)
Is Master Welf still occupied?
[HESTIA] Yup... Hunkered
down in his forge.
[BELL, internal] I made up
my mind to save her.
[BELL, internal] I don't
regret anything.
[BELL, internal] And I don't
care what anyone says about me.
[BELL, internal] But...
(BELL somber)
(door knock)
(BELL notice)
[BELL] Come in!
Hey, Bell...
Someone's here.
A visitor...?
[HERMES] You're in surprisingly
good spirits for someone
who's become the most hated
man in Orario. Kudos.
[HESTIA] Hermes!
The facts speak for themselves.
You've picked up on the
general sentiment, I'm sure.
Did you come here
just to tease us?!
[HESTIA] If that's all you
wanted, then beat it.
The Xenos... are
waiting for your help.
(BOTH gasp)
[HESTIA] What do you mean?
[HERMES] There's no need
keep up the charade.
[HERMES] Uranus brought me up to
speed on their existence a while
ago.
[HERMES] Up 'til now, I've been
working behind the scenes.
(BOTH hesitation)
[BELL] Do you know
where they might be?
[HERMES] Asfi's out with a small
team looking...
but we've yet to find anything.
[HERMES] I suspect that they
split up and took shelter in
different locations.
[HERMES] Regardless, there's a
good chance that they haven't
left the sewers beneath Daedalus
Street.
[HESTIA] The place is probably
crawling with Loki's children by
now...
[HERMES] Yep. Lady Freya's
got Babel under close
surveillance...
and the Ganesha Familia's got
the entrance to the Dungeon
locked down tight.
If monsters were to hide in the
city... Daedalus Street seems
like the most logical choice.
Ais' party is
patrolling that area.
[BELL] Wait, Miss Ais?
(BELL somber)
Hermes... It's a long shot...
but what if we explain
the situation to Loki?
(BELL gasp)
[HESTIA] I wouldn't
call it a truce...
[HESTIA] But if we could
just convince her to look
the other way
while the Xenos return
to the Dungeon...
[HERMES] Unlikely.
(BOTH surprised)
[HERMES] Even if Loki were
privy to the details...
her children would never
condone an act of sympathy
towards monsters.
[HERMES] Don't forget Finn
Deimne... He's desperate to
reclaim his people's former
glory.
And He wouldn't do anything
to jeopardize that goal.
(BELL discouraged)
Possessing intelligence
alone doesn't matter...
To Loki's children, a
monster is just a monster.
And exterminating
them is all they know.
(TOWNSPEOPLE grunts and
groans/rebuilding town)
(angry)
[HESTIA] You sure are
strange sometimes, Bell.
I have no idea why you're
so eager to visit Daedalus
Street...
[BELL] I'm sorry...
But when I heard what
Master Hermes said,
I couldn't sit around
at home any longer.
[CITIZEN A] (notice) Hey, kid!
Aren't you the Little Rookie?!
(BELL notice)
How dare you show
your face here?!
Y'give adventurers
a bad name!
Don't try to pretend
this isn't your fault!
You gonna say
something or what!?
(TOWNSPEOPLE various insults
and griping)
You've really got some
nerve, kid... Honestly!
Alright! That's enough
out of all of you!
(CITIZENS shock)
Bell's questionable behavior
you witnessed was a result
of my financial debts.
[HESTIA] In fact, you might call
it the aftermath of his undying
love for me!
[HESTIA] If you're gonna
blame someone, you oughtta
be blaming me!
[HESTIA] Let's go, Bell.
[BELL] Oh! Alright...
I'm so sorry, Goddess...
Because of me, we're all...
[HESTIA] Don't sweat it!
You haven't needed a whole lot
of hands-on Hestia
guidance recently.
So it makes me kind of happy...
I get to do my job as
a goddess again y'know?
I appreciate it...
Thank you so much.
(BELL notice)
[BELL] Still, all this attention
might make it difficult
to search for Wiene...
[HESTIA] Good point. We wouldn't
wanna do anything reckless.
[BELL] Huh?
[HESTIA] (hesitation)
Hmm? Hmmm?!
(BELL anxious)
Move aside,
Wallen-whatser-whatever!
You're in the way!
(BELL gasp)
[HESTIA] Hello?! Are you
listening to me?! Yoohoo!?
[LOKI] Aisy-poo! Whatcha up to?
[HESTIA] Loki...!
[LOKI] Well, if it ain't
the widdle Shrimpette!
[LOKI] Aisy-poo... Hurry on back
to Finn. No detours, y'hear?
(AIS nod)
(BELL ashamed)
(HESTIA growling)
[LOKI] Heya, kiddo! So...
I heard about your
little faux pas.
[BELL] Uh-huh!
[LOKI] I dunno what your plan
was...
but I'm sure you knew that
protectin' monsters would
getcha kicked to the curb.
(BELL gasping)
[LOKI] So tell me lil'
man... how's it feel bein'
badmouthed...
by the people who used
ta' look up to ya?
[LOKI] Hmm?
[HESTIA] Wha-?!
[HESTIA] What the hell are you
doing?! Get away from Bell!
[LOKI] (pushed) Hey!
[LOKI] Oh come on...
Where's the harm? Not like
I get to jab him often!
[HESTIA] (struggling) Yeah,
well, nobody asked you!
[LOKI] Lemme mess with him
little a bit, ya wet blanket!
[HESTIA] Cut it out already?!
[HESTIA] Run away while
you still can!
[LOKI] Hold on a sec,
kiddo! How's about we
[HESTIA] None of that concerns
you!
[LOKI] I'm mighty interested
in that newfound confidence
[LOKI] I promise I
won't bite 'cha!
[HESTIA] Bell, hurry! Run!
[LOKI] Wait stop!
Where ya goin'?!
[BELL] Yeah I'm sorry,
but I have to go!
[BELL, internal] As long as
no one else gets punished,
I can handle whatever
insults they throw at me.
[BELL, internal] And well, my
goddess is willing to go to bat
for me, too.
[BELL] But...
(BELL slight wince)
(TOWNSPEOPLE quiet talking)
[SYR] Mr. Bell?
[BELL] Miss Syr...
Thank goodness!
I haven't seen you
around lately...
I was starting to get worried!
[BELL] I'm sorry...
(SYR concerned)
I know! Care to join
me for a short walk?
(surprise) Well...
Everybody in the city is pretty
upset with me at the moment...
You sure you want to?
Yes! Of course.
(BELL amazed)
[SYR] So then Mama Mia takes a
bite of my homemade lunch and
you know what she said? "Quit
wasting all our veggies!"
[SYR] Can you believe that?
So, you aren't ... going
to ask me about anything?
Well... Do you have something
you'd like to share?
[SYR] What's bothering you?
(BELL surprised) (hesitate)
Bottling up your emotions
isn't very healthy, you know.
You have friends, Mr. Bell.
And also a Familia
who supports you.
It scares me...
(SYR shock)
[BELL] I'm afraid that
they're going to leave me...
I never bothered to
ask how they felt.
I acted all on my own...
and dragged my friends along.
Put them in danger.
And... And I didn't...!
[SYR] That's my cue.
(BELL choked up)
(confused)
[BELL] Wait?! What?
Don't worry... Just relax.
Don't be afraid...
or discouraged.
You may have lost a few
things along the way...
[SYR] ...but what matters
most... will always be by
your side, Mr. Bell.
(BELL surprised)
Personally...
I care about the boy who
never gives up far too
much to leave him.
(forge hammering)
[LILI] At least take
a break for dinner!
Also keep it down
so we don't disturb the
neighbors, either okay.
(LILI sigh) (annoyed) (kick)
(LILI notice)
[HERMES] The Loki Familia's
full-scale manhunt
across Daedalus Street is now
underway, Uranus
With few options left, we
have little time to waste...
The Xenos could be moving...
any moment now.
Then we know where
they've turned.
To get help.
That's correct...
Bell and his Familia.
[URANUS] However...
Knossos leads to the Dungeon,
and the Loki Familia
is restricting access.
Even with reinforcements...
a frontal assault would ensure
their destruction.
[HERMES] Perhaps... but
all is not yet lost.
The blueprints for Knossos...
Daedalus' notebook.
(URANUS surprised) (realize)
Ikelos passed it along to me...
After checking out its
contents... I can vouch
its accuracy.
[HERMES] Uranus, allow me
to put this whole
fiasco to rest.
[HERMES] I would expect proper
compensation, of course...
[HERMES] Well? Might be handy!
(URANUS thinking)
[AISHA] Intelligent monsters
called "Xenos" and a labyrinth
called "Knossos"?
[ASFI] We don't have
enough manpower...
so I would appreciate your
cooperation... to smooth
things over.
[ASFI] Ryu, if we can count on
you to lend us a hand,
we promise to provide you
with information on the
last few remnants of Evilus.
(RYU react)
[AISHA] I dunno...
[AISHA] Yeah, they might talk
and think like us...
but I have a hard time getting
behind the idea of helpin' out
a bunch of monsters.
[AISHA] I mean, they're not
exactly the most sympathetic
creatures in the
world, are they?
Our has client requested...
that the Xenos be rescued.
Since you've joined the Hermes
Familia... it's important
you learn to follow orders.
Well, I'm not exactly
a pushover y'know.
If somethin' doesn't sit right
with me, I won't hesitate to
make a huge stink about it.
(sigh) Well just so you know...
Bell Cranel has chosen to show
compassion... towards these
"creatures," as you called them.
Excuse me?!
[HEPHAISTOS] To be
completely honest...
I'm of two minds about whether
or not we should help the Xenos.
[HEPHAISTOS] I mean,
let's face it...
[HEPHAISTOS] Their presence
on the surface is disastrous.
They're even wreaking havoc
on the city as we speak.
Be that as it may...
Takemikazuchi and I find
ourselves on the fence as well.
I have yet to disclose... the
true nature of the Xenos to
my own children...
I'm genuinely baffled...
Is it worth the
effort to save them?
(TAKEMIKAZUCHI frustrated)
Look I can't speak to the
advantages... or disadvantages.
However... this
can't go on forever.
(MIACH agree)
In which case, we ought
to make our final decision.
[HESTIA] Are you able to
decipher it, Miss Supporter?!
[LILI] Uh-huh... As I suspected,
it's a letter from Master Fels.
[LILI] He wrote this using a
complex code... (reaction)...
perhaps to prevent other
adventurers from reading it...
[WELF] "Tomorrow night, we shall
make our way to the entrance
of Knossos hidden along
Daedalus Street."
[WELF] "We kindly request
your assistance,"... eh?
(BELL somber)
[HESTIA] "I have assembled
several key magic items
in preparation for our
mission."... Sounds
great, but...
I dunno... It feels an
awful lot like being
lured by a siren's voice.
[HESTIA] Let's settle
this once and for all.
[HESTIA] It's time to choose
which path we wanna take:
[HESTIA] Option one: Rescue the
Xenos... and live the rest of
our lives as social outcasts.
[HESTIA] Option two: abandon
them, wait for this to blow
over, and go back to our normal
lives?
[HESTIA] Those are
our only choices.
[BELL] My mind... is made up.
(BOTH notice)
[BELL] Look... The Xenos...
Wiene.. And Mr. Lido...
[BELL] They need help and
I wanna save them!
[BELL] But... there's
also you guys...
[WELF] Lady Hestia... y'mind
if I propose a third option?
[WELF] Whaddya say we try
getting creative...
Let's sneak 'em back in the
Dungeon! No one gets pissed...
And we'll avoid getting
a bad rap.
(HESTIA satisfied)
(BELL confused)
Check it out.
New magic sword.
[WELF] Got three more sittin' in
my workshop.
[MIKOTO] I wouldn't expect
anything less.
(sigh) Five days of work and
only made four stinkin' swords?
Can't you squeeze out one more
for a nice round number?
(HARUHIME small laugh)
[WELF] I forged my ass off!
[WELF] If we wanna save the
Xenos... and maybe get the jump
on everyone...
we can't afford to put quantity
over quality!
Y'see Bell? Everyone's
been behind you since
the very beginning.
There is no doubt in my mind!
Master Bell... I shall follow
your lead.
You have already saved
my life once, Bell
I'm sure you remember. There's
no way I could lose everything.
Honestly... I wouldn't
turn my back on you...
And I don't want you doing
the same to somebody else.
I'm used to being
an outcast, anyway!
[WELF] Hear that, Bell? No
leavin' us behind this time.
[BELL] You guys...
[SYR] ...but what
matters most...
will always be by
your side, Mr. Bell.
[BELL] Thank you... All of you!
[HESTIA] That's that, then.
Now let's get out there...
and save the Xenos together!
(ALL happy)
Let's go save Wiene!
[FELS] A few moments ago,
I received a response from
Bell Cranel.
[FELS] He and his Familia have
offered their full cooperation.
[FELS] Tonight, upon emerging
from the sewers and forcing our
way through Daedalus Street...
[FELS] ...we shall flee
into the Dungeon via Knossos.
[FELS] Now, the Loki Familia
might anticipate us, however...
[FELS] ...given that Uranus
cannot take any kind of overt
action, there's no alternative.
[REI] But will we be safe
once we reach the door?
[REI] I'm worried of adventurers
that may pursue us...
[FELS] Currently, we are the
only ones in possession of a
key.
[FELS] After we pass through
that door, we should be out
of harm's way.
[GLOS] What about Fia,
Rhett, and the others
who got separated?
[FELS] Our only option is to
send a signal from our position
once the mission begins.
[FELS] Arousing suspicions
is a risk we'll have to take.
[WIENE] Does that mean
Bell's coming with us?!
[FELS] No...
[FELS] Bell Cranel is
going to act as a decoy.
(XENOS shock)
[REI] That's awful... You would
manipulate Mr. Bell yet again?
[GLOS] Boney bastard!
[LIDO] Low-life!
[WIENE] I hate you, Fels!
[FELS] Wait, hear me out!
And don't bring my
skeleton into this!
(XENOS frustrated)
[FELS] Due to recent events,
Bell Cranel is far
too conspicuous.
Drawing attention to himself
would be the most efficient
approach.
[GLOS] Like a diversion
of sorts...
[LIDO] Yeah, but... I don't
feel good about putting
this type of burden on Bell
and his friends again.
[FELS] Please try
to understand...
[FELS] They are the only ones
we can rely on right now.
(LIDO somber)
[LIDO] It makes sense
in my head, but...
[WIENE] Lido... Haruhime told
me... an old fable.
[WIENE] The surface-dwellers
have a story, "The Spirit Who
Returned the Favor."
[LIDO] "...Returned the Favor"?
(WIENE nod)
[WIENE] It's when you say
thanks to someone...
by doing something very super
nice for them in return.
Sounds fun, right? I think
we should do something...
really special... for
Bell in the future!
[LIDO] (shock) There's somethin'
different about you...
[LIDO] I can't quite put
my claw on it though...
[WIENE] You think so?
[LIDO] Alright!
When all's said and done,
we shall repay Bell's
kindness ten-fold!
(WIENE agree)
[FELS] Now then, let us open
a direct line of communication
with their Familia.
[FELS] Can you hear me,
Bell Cranel?
[BELL] Loud and clear, Mr. Fels!
[WIENE] It's Bell!
Bell, Bell, Bell!
[BELL] Wiene!
[WIENE] How are you, Bell?!
[REI] It's wonderful to hear
your voice.
[WIENE] I can't wait
to see you again!
[LIDO] Bellcchi, it's me! Lido!
[WIENE] Bell! Bell, Bell!
[GLOS] Quiet down!
They'll find us!
[HESTIA] There are six known
entrances to Knossos...
They're Hidden beneath
Daedalus Street...
The Northeast, The Northwest...
Then the west... Southwest...
Southeast... And lastly to the
east.
[HESTIA] However... according
to our intelligence,
the Loki Familia only has
four organized defense units
at most... Which means...
[WELF] ...they've only found
some of the doors... Meaning two
are unattended.
(HESTIA nod)
[MIKOTO] Understood...
We'll find one of these
unguarded doors...
and penetrate the Loki Familia's
defensive line.
(nod) Although...
nobody knows which units are
stationed outside of which
doors...
Even Uranus hasn't
cracked that yet.
[FELS] Unfortunately, there's
no time to investigate the
matter beforehand.
[FELS] We must accept the risks
and locate an accessible door
while we push forward with the
mission.
(sigh) So then basically...
we're bound to have a run-in
with the Loki Familia at some
point, aren't we?
[FELS] Be that as it may, I
would prefer to minimize the
number involved in the battle.
[FELS] And that, Bell Cranel,
is where you come in.
(BELL nod)
[FINN] Bell Cranel is
a diversionary tactic.
[FINN] In other words,
they'll use him as a decoy.
[FINN] Hard to say if he's
acting on free will..
But he's in the position to be
exploited by those monsters and
their ringleader.
[FINN] Based on their
actions so far,
I'm almost certain of it.
[FINN] While we're preoccupied
with the boy,
our enemies will try to make a
break for the nearest entrance
to the labyrinth.
[FINN] We ought to focus our
attention... on everything but
Bell Cranel.
[FINN] We must protect the
doors... no matter the cost.
[FINN] Furthermore... we must
use extreme caution... when
engaging that black minotaur.
[FINN] If it shows up,
prioritize its death
over the rest.
The enemy will attack soon...
Don't let them pass.
Stop their rampage!
[HERMES] Mr. Former Sage might
have old-man wisdom...
but if he plays this by the
book, he'll never outsmart
Braver.
[HERMES] That guy's far too
clever for that.
[HERMES] Although, Finn Deimne
probably won't account
for the slew of magic
items they possess...
Makes for a good means
of escape, at least.
[HERMES] But the most
important thing is him...
[HERMES] Bell Cranel.
[BELL] I'm going to
save them. All of them.
(Ending Song, "Evergreen")
[HESTIA] Next time: "Invisible."